docs(permissions): add guide for managing and restricting control plane permissions (#2305)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/_src/production/secure-deployment/manage-control-plane-permissions-on-kubernetes.md

By default, {{ Kuma }} deployed on Kubernetes reacts to events and observes all resources at the cluster scope. This approach benefits first-time users who want to explore its functionality and simplifies migration into the mesh. However, in production environments, restricting access to specific resources can enhance security and ensure that {{ Kuma }} does not impact running applications.

Starting from version 2.11, {{ Kuma }} includes new features that let you limit the permissions it needs in Kubernetes.

## Restrict permissions to selected namespaces

One of the new features allows you to define a list of namespaces that {{ Kuma }}'s control plane can access. When this list is set, {{ Kuma }} will only have permissions in those selected namespaces and in its own system namespace. It won't be able to access or manage resources in any other namespace.

### Set allowed namespaces during installation

To restrict {{ Kuma }} to a specific set of namespaces, set the following option during installation:

{% cpinstall namespaceAllowList %}
namespaceAllowList={kuma-demo}
{% endcpinstall %}

Replace `kuma-demo` with a comma-separated list of namespaces you want {{ Kuma }} to manage.

> This will create a `RoleBinding` in each listed namespace, binding the `{{ kuma }}-control-plane-write` `ClusterRole` to that namespace. It will also configure {{ Kuma }}'s mutating and validating webhooks to only work within the specified namespaces.

Reviewer: Wasn't there an issue about renaming these RB? Should someone take it?

Author: https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/pull/13586

<!-- vale Google.Headings = NO -->
## Manually manage RBAC resources
<!-- vale Google.Headings = YES -->

If your environment restricts creating cluster-scoped resources (`ClusterRole` or `ClusterRoleBinding`), or if you prefer to manage permissions yourself, you can disable automatic creation during installation.

Before installing {{ Kuma }}, you must manually create the following resources:

* `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` used by the control plane
* `Role` and `RoleBinding` within the control plane namespace
* (Optional) `RoleBindings` in selected namespaces when using `namespaceAllowList`

> 

Reviewer: We should add a warning to indicate that it's also important to ensure that when new versions are released these roles and role bindings are kept in sync.

Author: addressed

You can find the complete set of required manifests here:

{% rbacresources filename=app/_data/mesh_rbac_2.11.x.yaml %}

These manifests include the `{{ kuma }}-control-plane-writer` binding, granting the control plane write access to resources across all namespaces.

{% warning %}
**Important:** All required resources must be created **before** installing {{ Kuma }}.
{% endwarning %}

To disable automatic resource creation, use the following settings during installation:

{% capture skipRBAC %}
{% cpinstall skipRBAC %}
skipRBAC=true
{% endcpinstall %}

> {% endcapture %}

Author: It needs to be captured is so it can be nested under the list item as without capturing it and adding `indent` filter, Jekyll renders everything outside the list item

> {% endcapture %}

Reviewer: Why is this a list? It looks to me that these 2 should be titles (potentially level 3 `###`) no? That would have 2 benefits:

- makes things clearer that this isn't a sequence of things but 2 possibilities
- avoid the need for this capture

> {% endcapture %}

Author: addressed

> {% endcapture %}

Reviewer: This doesn't look addressed it's still not a level 3 subtitle right?

---
title: Manage control plane permissions on Kubernetes
content_type: how-to
---

{% capture docs %}/docs/{{ page.release }}{% endcapture %}
{% assign Kuma = site.mesh_product_name %}
{% assign kuma = site.mesh_install_archive_name | default: "kuma" %}
{% assign kuma-control-plane-workloads = kuma | append: "-control-plane-workloads" %}
{% capture Important %}{% if page.edition and page.edition != "kuma" %}**Important:** {% endif %}{% endcapture %}

By default, {{ Kuma }} deployed on Kubernetes reacts to events and observes all resources at the cluster scope. This approach benefits first-time users who want to explore its functionality and simplifies migration into the mesh. However, in production environments, restricting access to specific resources can enhance security and ensure that {{ Kuma }} does not impact running applications.

> Starting from version 2.11, {{ Kuma }} includes new features that let you limit the permissions it needs in Kubernetes.

Author: addressed

## Restrict permissions to selected namespaces

> One of the new features allows you to define a list of namespaces that {{ Kuma }}'s control plane can access. When this list is set, {{ Kuma }} will only have permissions in those selected namespaces and in its own system namespace. It won't be able to access or manage resources in any other namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define a list of namespaces that {{ Kuma }}'s control plane can access. When this list is set, {{ Kuma }} will only have permissions in those selected namespaces and in its own system namespace. It won't be able to access or manage resources in any other namespace.
```

docs should be written in a "timeless" tone, nothing is new as it may become deprecated.

Author: addressed

### Set allowed namespaces during installation

To restrict {{ Kuma }} to a specific set of namespaces, set the following option during installation:

{% cpinstall namespaceAllowList %}
namespaceAllowList={kuma-demo}
{% endcpinstall %}

Replace `kuma-demo` with a comma-separated list of namespaces you want {{ Kuma }} to manage.

This will create a `RoleBinding` in each listed namespace, binding the `{{ kuma-control-plane-workloads }}` `ClusterRole` to that namespace. It will also configure {{ Kuma }}'s mutating and validating webhooks to only work within the specified namespaces.

<!-- vale Google.Headings = NO -->
## Manually manage RBAC resources
<!-- vale Google.Headings = YES -->

If your environment restricts creating cluster-scoped resources (`ClusterRole` or `ClusterRoleBinding`), or if you prefer to manage permissions yourself, you can disable automatic creation during installation.

{% warning %}

> {{ Important }}If you choose to manage {{ Kuma }}'s RBAC resources yourself, make sure to keep them in sync during upgrades. When new versions of {{ Kuma }} are released, roles and role bindings may change, and it's your responsibility to update them accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{ Important }}If you choose to manage {{ Kuma }}'s RBAC resources yourself, make sure to keep them in sync during upgrades. When new version of {{ Kuma }} is released, roles and role bindings may change, and it's your responsibility to update them accordingly.
```

Author: addressed

{% endwarning %}

> Before installing {{ Kuma }}, you must manually create the following resources:

Reviewer 2: I would change order here and put `To disable automatic resource creation, use the following settings during installation:` steps before  this paragraph. 

Thanks to this we have more logical order as we mention you can do it and immediately show how, and later on we tell users what they need to keep in mind if they want to do it

Author: addressed
